COMP 311 - PROGRAMMING IN JAVA
Assignment 1 2022

Instructions

1. Answer all questions
2. Submit your project before the deadline
3. Plagiarism is not allowed
4. The total marks for this assignment is 100
1


Question 1

The ministry of Agriculture is looking to build an online system to register Farmers
across the country. The ministry need to capture the following information about farmers:

● ID number x
● Full names x
● Postal address x
● gender x
● Contact number x
● Email address x
● District x
● Sub District x
● Size of farm in Hectares x
● Area available for farming (area debushed) in Hectares x

You are to use this information to build a java application (console or graphical) for this purpose.
Your farmer should be able to complete the registration form by providing the required field
either through a GUI or a Command line application.

There are two users of the system, the farmer and the admin.

The farmer (25 Marks)
The farmer should be able to do the following:

a. Sign up and sign in
b. Update the profile by providing the information requested
c. Update their details

The administrator ( 25 Marks)
The admin should be able to do the following:

a. Approve or decline any registration request
b. View all registered farmers
c. Edit or delete farmers

Report (20 Marks)
● The application should allow the admin to print a list of all the farmers to a txt file
● Apply a filter to only show farmers belonging to a certain District or sub district
● Provide a filter to only print farmers of a certain gender
2

Pointers:
1. Feel free to use any data structure to store your information
2. The only database you are allowed to use is MYSQL
3. Your reports can be in the form of a text file
4. 30 Marks will be allocated for innovation. Going the extra mile to show

understanding and external research capabilities.
5. The total marks for the assignment is 100
6. You will demonstrate your assignment to your lecturer and also submit the zip file
to a link on blackboard.
7. The deadline for submission is 29 October 2022 at 2359hrs